Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. It is a set of instructions used to execute commands on a computer with various results.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Runtime Interpreter runs Java bytecodes. The compiler compiles code into a .class file which is
machine readable. The .class file is run through a Java virtual machine where it is executed.
What is IDE?
A. Integrated development environment is software where you can write and run codes.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij, Android studio, etc.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. The Runtime Interpreter runs Java bytecodes. The compiler compiles code into a .class file which is
   machine readable. The .class file is run through a Java virtual machine where it is executed.
what is class?
A. Java class is the blueprint for an object.
What is object?
A. Objects are instances of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
A. That would be the main method.
Why main is static?
A. Because main is invoked by jvm before objects are created. Being static lets it be directly invoked by the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.object is the superclass.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is the environment variable where we specify the locations of binaries and classpath is
the path for Java application where the classes you compiled will be available.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. An interface is an empty shell while abstract class looks like a interface but they are actual classes.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.No you can't make an object from interface or abstract class.
what is Access Specifier?
A. The access specifier is used to determine the visibility of methods and variables.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP is object oriented programming. This refers to abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package organizes java classes into namespaces and java.lang package is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application programming interface is basically a set of routines, protocols, and tools for
building software applications.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No it does not.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. This when the same method uses a different signature and it happens within a class.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. An exception occurs during the execution of a program and is a disruption that interrupts the flow of the
programs instructions.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static is a member of a class that is not associated with an instance of a class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final is used with variables to specify that it's value should not be changed.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is used with variables to specify that it's value should not be changed. Finally wil execute important code
whether the exception is handled or not and finalize is used for clean up process before the object is garbage
is collected.
What is a constructor ?
A. It is used to initialize a class.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes we can.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. A default empty constructor will be generated if you don't give one.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. It represents instance of a class.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. This keyword is used to access members of a super class by the extended class.
What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
A. No JVM is platform dependent.
What version of java are you using?
A. Java Version 10.0.2
What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?]
A. JVM runs bytecode and JDK is needed to compile Java source code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is basically like a container and JVM is the content.
What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is when the .java file becomes .class file. Run time is when you execute the program.
What is heap?
A. Heap is part of RAM. The heap is the run-time data area from which memory for all class instances
and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
A. All variables stay in stack while heap contains the objects.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String can't be changed so if you change the value another object is created where in stringbuffer and
builder you can change it.
What is Singleton class?
A. A class that can only have one object.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is when you turn data into a stream of bytes and Deserialization is turn a stream of bytes
back into a copy of the original object.
when to use transient variable in java?
A. It is a variable that can't be serialized. It is used to indicate to the JVM that the variable is not part of
the persistent state of the object.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop will only execute when the condition is true and while loop will execute the statements once even if
the condition fails.
What is Enum?
A. A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
What is Iterator?
A. Iterator enables you to cycle through a collection, obtaining or removing elements.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer takes more memory.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. For security issues.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current
object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. The serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work and parallel collector
performs minor collections in parallel, which can significantly reduce garbage collection.
What is JIT stands for?
A. Just-In-Time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. At run-time the Java instances are stored in the heap memory area and Java garbage collection is an automatic
process to manage the runtime memory used by programs.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No it is not guaranteed.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Heap is used to store objects while stack is used to store local variables and functions.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Is a process of examining or modifying the run time behavior of a class at run time.
what is multithreading in java?
A. Basically is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization allows you to control how different threads will execute a piece of code.
What is Framework?
A. Java Frameworks is just large bodies of predefined Java code.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, Selenium, Cucumber, etc.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. The difference is their scopes.
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.









